hey this is presto Walker reminding you
to mind your decisions a dog a cat and a
mouse are at point-a on triangle ABC all
three simultaneously run along triangle
ABC first covering a B then B C and
finally CA the dog moves at speed 12 on
a B 10 on B C and 15 on CA the cat moves
at speed 15 on a B 15 on B C and 10 on
CA the mouse moves at speed 10 on a B 20
on B C and 12 on CA if all three finish
at a at the same time what is the
measure of angle ABC
I think sake for suggesting this problem
pause the video if you'd like to give it
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
so to solve this seemingly impossible
problem we need to think backwards how
can we find the measure of angle ABC
recall data triangles angles are
determined by the relative lengths of
its sides so let's solve for the ratio
of the sides will let a B be equal to 1
and let's solve for BC which will denote
as X and CA which will denote as Y the
dog moves at speed 12 on a B 10 on BC
and 15 on CA what's the total time it
takes to run around the triangle that
time T will be equal to a B over 12 plus
BC over 10 plus CA over 15
now we've supposed that a b is equal to
1 bc is equal to x and CA is equal to y
let's write a similar equation for the
cat to do this we have to remember that
it takes the same time for them to move
around the triangle so we can use the
same time value of T so the equation for
the cat is that T is equal to 1 over 15
plus x over 15 plus y over 10 we finally
have a similar equation for the mouse we
substitute in its speeds along the
different sides we now have three
equations that are all equal to T to
make this a little more manageable let's
multiply each equation by 60 to get rid
of the denominators we now have three
equations that are all equal to 60 T
therefore we can set these three
equations equal to each other
let's solve this system of equations
well first consider the first two
equations we can move the X terms to the
left the Y terms to the right and we end
up that one plus 2x is equal to 2y this
simplifies to be one-half plus X is
equal to Y now let's look at the second
and third equations we again simplify
this and we get X plus y is equal to two
we then substitute in that Y is equal to
one-half
plus X we can then get a single equation
in one variable X which we can solve
that X is equal to 3/4 we substitute
that back and solve that y is equal to 5
over 4 so we've solved for the relative
sizes if a B is equal to 1 but I still
don't know the angle ABC let's scale all
sides by a common ratio of 4 so a B will
be equal to 4 B C will be equal to 3 and
C a is equal to 5 we now have a familiar
right triangle this is a 3 4 5 right
triangle where a B is equal to 4 B C is
equal to 3 and C a is equal to 5
furthermore angle ABC is a right angle
therefore it's measure is 90 degrees and
like magic we have solved for the angle
measure incredible thanks for watching
and for making mind your decisions one
of the best channels on YouTube thanks
for watching and thanks for your support
you
[Music]